In 1961 Martin Joos, a linguist at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, wrote "The Five Clocks",
which describes five styles or registers of the use of English. Well, this system has not changed since
Joos simply said so, even though it is a good introduction for a layman, do not take it
as gospel.
Joos presented five registers for English: Frozen, Formal, Advisory, Everyday and Intimate.
Frozen is simple. These are quotes written in stone. For example from the Bible: "You
will not kill. "That is frozen, frozen is what I do now, even if I use it deliberately
some everyday words pauses to build a relationship with you,
the viewer. That probably does not work, but hey, I've tried it. Advisory is what can happen
in a formal business appointment, or when there is information to transfer: no one assumes
foreknowledge. Everyday is friends in the pub: there are interruptions, inside jokes, and it is
okay if you stammer a lot. And finally there is Intiem: the private language, including
non-verbal signals that build up family members and very good friends.
Everyone moves back and forth between these registers hundreds of times a day, without talking about it
thinking. We instinctively know which register to use ... and if we do it wrong,
then it is a recipe for shame. But what is interesting is that it is not just about
how we talk. It's not just about using "I'm going to" instead of "Imma": it's about all
words we use.
The most obvious example of how registers change a language in English is in the names
for meat. In 1066 the Normans invaded England and they generally spoke Norman or Picardian.
Not that Picard. These were the languages ​​of what is now Western France. I am simplifying
a lot here, but over the next few centuries they formed Anglo-Norman together with Anglo-Saxon,
what was spoken by the nobility and the higher social classes, darling. So the people who
The meat ate often referred to the food on their plate with the Anglo-Norman 'crook'
- beef - while those who raised the animals referred to them with the Anglo-Saxon name:
'cu'.
You see that everywhere. The complicated words, the beautiful words, the words that are associated
with respect and more formal registers - those words are more often of Norman origin
and sound French. A 'smell' is Anglo-Saxon, an 'odor' is French. If you order a 'drink', you are talking
Anglo-Saxon. If you order a 'beverage', you speak French. Meanwhile, the Latin and Greek words - the
words of the scholars - more often in more technical registers.
And then you have scold. Brilliant, Anglo-Saxon swearing. Some Anglo-Saxon words for
bodily functions were found rude when there were more refined French or Latin words
who could describe the same less roughly.
So, the chic words are French. The rough words are Anglo-Saxon. And we switch between the two
and so many other things without thinking about it. The seeds of the linguistic class struggle
were planted almost a millennium ago.
[Translation: Niels de Groot]